The Pomodoro technique is a time-management method developed by Francesco Cirillo in the late 1980s. The technique uses a timer to break down work into intervals, traditionally 25 minutes in length, separated by short 5 minute breaks. Each interval is known as a “pomodoro,” from the Italian word for tomato, after the tomato-shaped kitchen timer that Cirillo used as a university student. This project involved installing packages via NPM, running tests from the command line, writing React function components, using hooks like useState(), and debugging React code through console output and React dev component tool. This complex web application has many components. I got to apply my knowledge of rendering and state management in React. This project is an interactive React application that uses buttons and timers. I managed the state of the React application and use state effectively over multiple components. I imported and exported appropriately where necessary. When the focus duration or break duration of the timer expires, an audio sound plays. There is also a progress bar that shows how much time has passed. Bootstrap was used for styling the progress bar component and the colors of the buttons. With no degree in computer science and my non-technical background, one challenge I faced was figuring out how to approach solving a problem in an organized structured manner and translating what’s in my head to code. I used to start working on a coding assignment by writing some code in the App component and then I would write some code in a child component. Then I would declare a state back in the App component and then go back to the other child components and fill in with more code. This strategy of going back and forth between components wasn’t working very well for me. I would easily get confused and lose my train of thought on what I was supposed to do. So, I changed my approach and came up with a different strategy. I knew that each component had one responsibility based on the “singleness of purpose” principle.
